

 Parameterized queries provide an effective solution by separating data from the query logic and preventing SQL injection.

Parameterized queries, also known as prepared statements or parameter binding, are a technique used in database programming 
to execute SQL queries with placeholders for dynamic data. Instead of directly embedding user input or variables into the query 
string, parameterized queries use parameters that are filled with values at runtime.


Parameterized Query in PostgreSQL
In PostgreSQL, parameterized queries are created using the ‘PREPARE’ statements. The syntax follows the general pattern:
PREPARE statement_name (data_type, data_type, ...) AS
    SQL_QUERY;S

To execute the prepared statement, you bind values to the parameters using the EXECUTE command:
EXECUTE statement_name (value, value, ...);

Parameterized queries are a powerful tool for enhancing the security, performance, and maintainability of database operations. 
By separating data from query logic, parameterized queries mitigate the risk of SQL injection attacks and enable efficient 
query optimization. Incorporating parameterized queries into your projects will contribute to safer and more efficient database 
interactions

By using parameterized queries, you achieve several benefits:

Security: Parameterized queries protect against SQL injection attacks by automatically sanitizing user input.
Performance: Database servers can compile and cache prepared statements, resulting in faster query execution.
Code maintainability and reusability: Separating the query structure from the data values makes the code cleaner and enables 
reusing the same prepared statement with different parameters.
In conclusion, parameterized queries are a best practice for database programming as they provide a secure and efficient way to 
execute SQL queries with dynamic data. They protect against SQL injection and enhance code maintainability, making them an essential
tool for any application that interacts with a database.
